Source: <https://www.guru99.com/sql-interview-questions-answers.html> 

### What is DBMS  

A Database Management System(DBMS) is a program that controls creation, maintenance and use of a database. DBMS can be termed as File Manager that manages data in a database rather than saving it in file systems. 

### What is RDBMS

Relational Database Management System. RDBMS store the data into the collection of tables, which is related by common fields between the columns of the table. It also provides relational operators to manipulate data stored into the tables.  Example: SQL Server.

### What is SQL?

SQL stands for Structed Query Language, and it is used to communicate with the Database. This is a standard language used to perform tasks such as retrieval, updation, insertion and deletion of data from a database.

### What is a Database?

Database is nothing but an organized form of data for easy access, storing, retrieval and managing of data. This is also known as structured form of data which can be accessed in many ways. 

### What are tables and fields?

A table is a set of data that are organized in a model with Columns and Rows. Columns can be categorized as vertical, and Rows are horizontal. A table has specified number of column called fields but can have any number of rows which is called record. 

Example:

Table - Employee

Field - EmpID, EmpName, DateOfBirth

Data - 201456, David, 11/02/1987

### What is a primary key?

A primary key is a combination of fields which uniquely specify a row. This is a special kind of unique key, and it has implicit NOT NULL constraint. It means, Primary key values cannot be NULL. 

### What is a unique key?

A unique key constraint uniquely identified each record in the database. This provides uniqueness for the column or set of columns. 

A primary key constraint has automatic unique constraint defined on it. But not, in the case of unique key.

There can be many unique constraint defined per table, but only one Primary key constraint defined per table. 

### What is a foerign key?

A foreign key is one table which can be related to the primary key of another table. Relationship needs to be created between two tables by referencing foreign key with the primary key of another table. 

### What is a join?

this is a keyword used to query data from more tables based on the relationship between the fields of the tables. Keys play a major role when JOINs are used. 

### What are the types of join and explain each?

#### Right join

return rows which common between the tables and all rows of Right hand side table. Simply, it returns all the rows from the right hand side table even though there are no matches in the left hand side table.

#### Left join

return rows which are common between the tables and all rows of LHS table. Simply, it returns all the rows from LHS table even though there are no matches in the RHS table. 

#### Full join

return rows when there are matching rows in any one of the tables. This means, it returns all the rows from the LHS and all the rows from the RHS table. 

### What is normalization?

Normalization is the process of minimizing redundancy and dependency by organizing fields and table of a database. The main aim of Normalization is to add, delete or modify field that can be made in a single table. 

### What is Denormalization?

DeNormalization is a technique used to access the data from higher to lower normal forms of database. It is also process of introducing redundancy into a table by incorporating data from the related tables. 

### What are the different normalizations?

#### First Normal Form (1NF):

This should remove all the duplicate columns from the table. Creation of tables for the related data and identification of unique columns. 

#### Second Normal Form (2NF):

Meeting all requirements of the first normal form. Placing the subsets of data in separate tables and Creation of relationships between the tables using primary keys. 